In this video you're going to learn how to set up a custom alert so that you can get an email when you
have a spike in traffic or you have a drop in your traffic.
Then the reason I'm not you might want to do this is so you can really fix a problem if you notice that
there's a big drop in traffic maybe your side is down.
So you want to be e-mailed about that rather than finding out about it.
Two days later from somebody on your social media.
So a drop in traffic could really signify that there might be a problem there.
A big spike in traffic equally You might want to be notified about that straightaways you can capitalize
on that opportunity.
Maybe you've been mentioned by somebody online and they've sent you a huge amount of referral traffic.
Well you really want to make sure that everything is working ok not people are going through your site
ok and maybe completing the goals that you want them to.
And maybe there's an opportunity as well to capitalize on that mention to make it a bigger thing and
really ultimately take advantage of an opportunity like that.
So those are the couple of the reasons that you might want to set this up and to set it up.
You want to come into your admin section and you can scroll down to customer alerts and really you can
create a new alert.
I'll show you how to set it up for traffic spike.
We want to apply to this view.
We're going to look at a day we can select that we want to be notified when the similar triggers and
we can out of the people there as well.
We're going to apply this to all our traffic and the number one on the conditions for getting this alert
is when the number of sessions as a percentage increase more than let's say 30 percent.
And compared to the same day of the previous week.
So those are the conditions for us getting this alert.
You can set that up as you once were probably 30 percent change is going to be significant something
like a 5 percent change.
That's not really a spike in traffic.
That's just the normal up and down.
But somebody might hurt 30 percent could be quite significant.
So can depend if your site is brand new and you might have to upgrade to something higher.
But if your site is set up and running for a while then usually a 30 percent increase will be pretty
significant and something that you want to know about.
And once you set it up you can click Save alert.
Now Equally if you want to set up a traffic drop Ahlers it's the same thing except that you want to
do a percentage increase of more than 30 percent compared to the previous week.
And you can save both of those.
And then once that's done you're going to have these custom alerts set up and you can be getting those
emails any time.
That is a big spike or a drop in your traffic.
So you can really act on it straight away.